The video is recorded on April 3, 2017, and will be recorded on April 4, 2017, and will be recorded
on April 4, 2017.
Sanga members and spiritual friends are very necessary and important to gain the realization and
improve our realization.
We do that, we won't. And for that reason, what in the teaching said, and the great master Buddha
Shakyamuni said, known as Sutta Sesayangata, Nodoba, Nodoba Sesayangata said,
"Every virtues are depended on the Sanjay Devotee." Every Buddha teaching, teaching of the Buddha
Dharma, is depended with spiritual friends.
Therefore, they should contract with spiritual teachers.
And that means we need to know something. We should contract with experts, or who have some
knowledge.
And that is spiritual friend. Spiritual friend is what? Again, to contract is so important to the
spiritual friend, or be with good friend is so important.
Again, in another way, the teaching said, for example, again, always in the teaching said that in
Southern India, there are so many sandal woods.
They called them the ancient time of now to that. So many sandal woods.
If that sandal wood area, if you leave the regular wood with that sandal wood area, the regular
wood will get fragrance of the sandal wood.
Similarly, if you really contract and be with a qualified teacher, teacher that will make the
difference, it will ignite your goodness, your goodness, goodness.
So therefore, qualified teacher here said, "Sindhi Lama." "Sindhi" qualified teacher. "Sindhi" "S
indhi" "Damba Lama." "Om" "Sindhi Lama."
Qualified teacher. That is a short contract. And that is the Buddha's teaching then, always.
Teacher said, "Pose, you should be expert to examine them or to finding the qualified teachers. Be
expert to finding qualified teacher."
Second, be expert, qualified to contract with that qualified teacher or qualified spiritual friend.
To be expert, how to contract, how to relate to that. Third, be expert to learn from that qualified
teacher. Every aspect, every aspect.
That's what the realist teaching says. And that is the Poxam read life story of all those great
masters. Masters. Poxam's great master, Lunkimpa.
He found qualified teacher, he is like his commonly connected root teacher, Rveda Dara Kumarajas.
He contract with, when he saw, when he found that, he contract instead with according to teaching,
he stayed with six years.
Six years and it is even teaching. Lunkimpa has already great scholars before he came to Ranzi
Kumarajas.
He is renowned as master of all other teachings. He came one of that time, not one of the most
famous monasteries in the center of it.
That time, the most famous monasteries in the center of it. That time, the most famous monasteries
in the center of it.
He become the top of top among those brilliant students. He is the expert of all the teachings, but
yet he need to contract to qualify a teacher.
Qualified teacher, he contract with this great master, Ranzi Kumarajas or Veda Dara Kumarajas, for
six years.
Ranzi Kumarajas, what they do in the teaching set? In the teaching set, his style, Ranzi Kumarajas,
he has so many practitioners with him, students with him, but they don't stay at one place.
Ranzi Kumarajas is like caravans, caravans. He is moving place to place, moving place to place.
Many times, Ranzi Kumarajas style, whatever he stay in one area, whatever he got, whatever received
from the donation or the blessed offerings or that,
he leave that, to give that to that area, he go with just him or with the student to other places
and start kind of new things in a way, new completely.
So there is nothing he is holding. That is very renowned in the debate called "Pumda". Pumda means
everything give way, give way and move to the other places.
So he does that. In the teachings, Ranzi Kumarajas is already so poor. When he came, Ranzi Kumaraj
as was born in a poor family and when he was also growing up,
he has a lot of difficulties to maintain of his studies. And when he came to Ranzi Kumarajas, also
he don't have much. He is quite poor. I am poor.
So when he master's moving place and giving everything and don't give has any more difficult in the
teachings, more difficult to be with the teacher.
But yet, his courage and commitment and devotion, he stayed. Six years, Ranzi teaches. So he
teaches and all that teaches.
And that is how content will be courage and commitment. Not just that kind of like content, "Oh, I
know I have got this." And then he says that.
And that is also good. But however, if we like to really improve, we have to be content, delicately
content and practice.
And they read that, for example, those all goryazoki masters, for example, Jimin was those students
, those all, really, one apron that is so humble, so simple, so white, so don't eat earth.
But yet, they worship them and compare them. It is just brilliant as a son. Really, all those jimin
triyas, jimin jyawala, all one apron other.
They also contact with the great master jimin. And their master paparoon, he contracts with all.
Again, we find his teacher, particularly, he observes that teaching into the heart and practice.
And then he is one of the foremost disciple of the paparoon, was known as Nyokilunku.
Again, so great master, really, full of love, full of compassion, full of knowledge, full of
experience, peace in the practical common sense and don't eat earth.
Humble, simple, and respect and appreciation to everyone. I mean, we need a large story of those
when we heard story from the other great masters about those students.
Those are known as, once you find a qualified teacher and a contractor.
And now, we talk about the qualified teachers. What means qualified? Generally, qualified teacher,
unqualified teacher.
All spiritual friends and negative friends. Negative friends.
What that is generally clearly distinct by, again, we say, two friends, good friend and bad friend.
A good friend is a spiritual friend and a bad friend is negative friend.
What is said? And when you contract with first ritual with a negative friend, what a great master
just told me, what he told me, he said in his 37th, I mean, you all have that books too, you can
read.
You can read very powerful instructions, all these things. He said, when you contract with whom you
contract, as I translated, when you contract, it will increase the three poisons.
Ignorance and attachment and anger, it will increase the three poisons. At the same time, it will
decrease all the virtuous activities, good activities, beneficial activities, practical activities,
common sense activities.
It reduces. And to get with dharma, such as it will reduce your time to study dharma and
contemplate dharma and meditate dharma on the meaning, it will reduce the dharma.
At the end, it will completely vanish it, vanish it, loving kindness and compassion, complete
vanish it.
If that individually is known as negative friend, whoever that is, if we contract with that, if
that does, therefore, we should be thoughtful.
Even if we have similar kind of friend, they love us, they do that, but we have to be very
thoughtful, have the strength, inner strength, inner strength.
Strength, so we are not completely kind of overpowered by that. And then, also, we lose our goal.
And in some ways, also, it will be unbeneficial to that person too. By the compassion, by both each
other, we have to get inner strength. Strength when you receive this.
This is, and that is so many stories. When the negative friend is identity, very influential, very
powerful, influential in the samsara in our lives.
Really, it is very powerful. It will change directions, directions.
And there are so many stories that those unspirited friend or negative friend change the directions
in the Buddha teachings.
So many of them, not just the Buddha teaching, we know, we know that.
And that, so many poets, I mean, young kids in school are spoiled by their friends, and then they
lost their life.
Really, in a way, they are losing lives, all these beautiful things, losing and completely kind of
carried with the post.
And then, meaning of life is completely devalued, valued and become almost kind of useless.
And then end, when everybody ended with tragedies, how would that happen? This happens.
And on the other hand, then spiritual friend.
Spiritual friend. And what again this great Master says.
I mean, if we do that, what we do, trying to connect with inner strength and be strong with those
un-conveller and un-virtuous friend everywhere.
Then, that is, in the teachings, that is practicing of the bodhisattvas.
That is practice of bodhisattvas. This is not negatives.
That we are doing something good for you, and it will be good for them too. It benefits us.
And the next one is then the spiritual friend.
What does the community say? Through whom you contract to that individually, it will bring all the
good qualities as like vaccines.
It will increase as like vaccines, and then it will bring all the studying, understanding and
knowledge.
Knowledge also begins to shine beautifully.
And also it reduces all the negatives. I mean, it begins to devalue the negatives.
One who also contact with that, then all the practices such as studying, meditation and conveller,
all that will increase.
That is known as spiritual friend. In these teachings, when you found that kind of friend, you
should keep that friend as dear as your life's lives.
Keep that as dear or precious as your life's lives. And instead, that is practicing of the bodhis
attvas.
So those are generally the importance of the negative spiritual friend and unspiritual friend.
Now we go to the qualifications of the teachers.
Generally, the qualification of the teachers taught by bodhisattvas in so many places, according to
every kind of divided into three.
Hinayana, Sutra Mahayana, and Vayayana Mahayana. If you come and summarize with that.
And Sutra Mahayana, oh sorry, Hinayana, qualified teacher, there is many again to summarize that.
To summarize, there is known as three qualifications.
Three qualifications are principal, which is, in a debate, tenki pampayori.
Ten means stable, kiwi means expert, and pen means beneficial. So that is really neat.
Stable means what? According to the Hinayana teaching, that teacher or spiritual teacher have the
good moral conduct,
moral conduct or stable moral conduct, that is at least, there is nothing, nothing stand for at
least ten years.
So at least, the least and then more is great. So stainless, quite good conduct, quite good conduct
or quite good moralities,
moralities, moralities, and that is known as stables, or even ten years, at least ten years.
And then, second is expert. Expert means teachings of the Baladhanas.
And teachings of the Baladhana, such as Vinaya, Sutra, and Abhidhana, expert.
And expert has two experts, expert of the scripture and also somebody expert of the realizations.
The scripture means knowledge, generally knowledge of the, such as Vinaya teaching, Sutra teaching,
and Abhidhana teachings, some knowledge.
That is known as in the Buddha teaching, "longge chu" and in a debate, "longge chu".
I translate it as "scripture". And then, "pupu chu" is realization, that Buddha teaching is not
just a teaching only for the intellectual,
but it is teaching for the realization, for practices. What is the practices?
Practice the meaning of that teaching, that observe in heart and mind some degree development, some
degree development to that individual.
So, in that level, again, for example, the realization of the three basket teachings always said, "
morality, concentration, and resistance".
Those are also known as, in the Buddha teaching, three extra ordinary training practices, morality,
concentration, and meditation.
So, some degree that individually is not just only kind of knowledge of the brain, but also that
those all observe in the heart, mind, and some degree to that realization.
Understand, keep up that.
And the third one is, then, beneficial. And also, that individually, it has quite a good amount of
compassion, loving-kindness, caring, and concerning thought to the others.
And also, patient, patient, help with that. Those are really, I mean, there are many more to you,
but those are similar, really qualification of the "ashenyana" teachings, "henyana" teachings.
And "mayana" teaching is best on that, the qualified teaching, is best on "henyana". Same thing,
same thing, I think it's really difficult to speak that way.
But above that, what is teaching? It says, again, "mayana", to have that, again, morality, or keep
both each other, worry strongly in that heart, or that qualified teaching, with those what is
listed in "henyana".
And above that, good compassion, good compassion.
And also, have great knowledge of the body, both "mayyana" teachings, "mayyana" teachings.
And always have the courage and the commitment and the patience to help other beings. And always
also available, quite available, available when needed, available.
Those are some qualifications of the, again, really, the "mayana" teachings.
So this means, the individual who has those qualifications, then they are quite qualified teachers,
teachers to contact them, to contact them.
Then, in the "mayana" teaching, qualification is again the same, is best upon the same thing.
But that teaching is not just three different groups, and then you completely keep up one after
another.
But all is lined up. All is best upon one after another. Another is all connected.
So now, when you have this, so that means "mayana", sorry, "henyana", "mayana", "sutra-mayana"
qualification.
And now, above that, what is in "mayana" teaching? Teaching said, again, one who keeps the old Sam
ayas.
Morality is known as in "mayana" teaching, known as Samayas.
And "sutra-mayana" is as known as, I think, vows, vows.
And then, in the bodhisattva, also in "henyana", morality, I think. Those are different terminology
, but it's the same meaning.
There's nothing big difference, please.
So now, Samaya, quite, okay. Now, Samaya is very energetic teaching.
Samaya is larger, deeper, so that means more.
And then, this Samaya is generally very energetic teaching.
Samaya, I think many of you all know, is best, kind of like, summarized in the five dhyana-buddha
Samayas.
Five dhyana-buddha Samayas.
Within the five dhyana-buddha Samayas, then all those "henyana", "mayana" was also included today.
It's really all included. It's all coming up, all coming in the "mayana" teaching.
And those, I will just list those names.
For example, first is the Samaya of the Buddha families.
Sometimes the Buddha family is also known as "tathagada" families, or "devishya" parents.
Buddha families, Samaya is what? The "moralities".
"Moralities" is the whole morality, what is mentioned in the "henyana" and "mayanas".
In "mayana", morality is divided, as you know, three, right? Three.
And morality that will prevent all the negativities, and that is one.
Second, morality that will increase all the good activities.
Oh, sorry, maybe this increases, but morality, that will gather all the good activities.
So that is second, and third is morality that will make beneficial to all the living beings.
That morality, that three, is Samaya of the Buddha family.
Above that, rafuddhi and bodhicata are above that.
So they mean three, five.
So, Buddha family Samayas are the three moralities, rafuddhi and bodhicata.
So, that is Buddha families.
And then, rafuddhi, rafuddhi families, Samayas are keeping up the skill to meet the Muslims.
Keeping up the skill to meet the Muslims.
Combined with that, with that, what is called, with that, Buddha family Samayas.
To symbolize even that, say, teaching, keep the bell, and the dojis, dojos.
But that is Samayas.
And above that, rena sama family or rena families, morality is above those two.
Above those two Samayas doing all the generosity practices.
Generosity practices.
Generosity, giving, giving, giving those, all the things.
That is what I was called.
Rena families practice, rena family Samayas.
Above that four, above that three.
And then, bhema families keeping up all the teachings, honoring all the teachings.
So that included the Hinayana teaching, Mahayana teaching, all the Vaidyana teachings.
That is bhema families, Samayas.
Above that, what?
Above that, then Samayas of the Amogasalas family or Ganga family
is performing all the commitment, what you said I will do.
Keeping up all the practice, keeping up all the values.
What we said we will keep, we will do when we receive the teaching,
when we receive the empowerment, when we receive instructions.
Keeping our commitments.
Commandments and the plus, then, not kind, then keeping up, also like timely practices,
such as 10th day practices, Nakini practices.
And then plus, whatever you are committed to do, kind of keeping up the walls,
walls at the same time, trying to help other beings.
Those are known as karma families, Samayas.
So now, with this, this, then, so they are here.
Again, all that, I just said that, but with that courage,
when you find this qualified teacher, teacher,
then with joyful effort and with courage and commitment, keep up that.
Keep some of that.
And as, again, those read life story of the great master,
Anjiba, Malareba, and all those girls have really been maintained
and kept up and counted that qualified teacher with full of joy and devotions.
This.
And when you receive that, then, and of course, in the Zouki teaching, Samayas,
known as, then, what?
Of course, the Zouki Samayas, again, really known as 27 Samayas,
which is related with the root teachers.
27 Samayas.
And then, the one also where you kind of summarize that in a way,
those are known as the poor Samayas.
And,
poor Samayas are,
and they need to be, to be Mepa, means not exist.
And so maybe I will use that.
North, North Samayas,
pervasive Samayas,
one Samaya,
and spontaneously inherited the Samayas.
Those are poor, famous Samayas.
And North Samaya means in the Zouki realization,
everything is, is Rupa.
Everything is within the Rupa.
Nothing is outside of the Rupa.
When we keep maintaining the Rupa,
Rupa or the three awareness, Rupa states,
exactly as it is, there is nothing to keep Samayas, this and that.
In it, there is nothing.
All is displayed.
Actually, when we keep the awareness,
when we maintain the awareness, then there is no Samayas.
For that reason, no Samayas.
And the second is pervasive Samayas.
Pervasive Samayas mean when we,
when we have the realization of the Rupa,
when you have this Rupa realization,
Rupa is not just selected one in it.
Rupa is pervasive.
Rupa is as far as space goes.
That far is Rupa.
Ever knows.
And for that reason, what great master Garabdoji said,
my father always said those things to me in my age.
Said, said that what Garabdoji said.
Sentin means mind or soul pieces, kind of small, small pieces.
Buddha mind is pervasive as sky.
Buddha mind is Rupa.
Rupa is pervasive.
What is Rupa?
Rupa, we talked so many times.
We read books, talk about it.
It's three kaya.
So three kaya is not just a small ICBC 180 in my heart or your heart.
It's pervasive nature.
Everything is in three kaya, three.
Narmakaya, Sambokaya, Narmakaya.
In that reason, all the Samayas rules and regulations,
whatever, is three kaya.
There's nothing to really hold, nothing to select, nothing to reject.
It's all three kaya states.
It's pervasive.
For that reason, pervasive Samayas.
And the third one is Samaya of one.
Samaya is one.
And that is again, same thing about the Rupa.
When you discover the Rupa, you discover everything.
Everything.
And the Rupa is pervasive politics.
So there's not just a many these and that.
When you discover the Rupa, you discover everything.
And all the Samayas, all that merge in one Rupa status.
As you say in the teaching said, 100 rivers went under one bridge.
100 rivers went under one bridge.
One realization, Rupa completely transcendental, all transcendental, all big.
Everything has three kaya states.
So there's nothing really to go up in each other.
It's one, one Samayas.
And the next one is a spontaneously inherited Samayas.
Inherent.
That means when you are again is similar, but looking at different angles.
Again, all these realizations, all these Samayas and all these,
is all holds in the Rupa status.
Rupa status.
In the teaching said, general how that is explained.
Teaching said, when you got the Rupa, realization of Rupa,
when you discover the Rupa, when you discover the awareness,
exactly as it is, that individually never perform any negativity activities
that go to the others, to the others and to yourself.
When you not doing any negative activities, naturally that will complete
all the Hinayanas, Samayas or vows or the Morales.
When you have that realization of the Rupa, naturally that person will perform
all the beneficial activities.
That also indicates, joking practitioners, all great bodhisattvas,
they perform all the beneficial activities.
When you have and not going to do any negative activities
and going to all the beneficial activities with realization of the Rupa,
freely, openly, you begin to do.
And when you perform all the beneficial activities
to all the sentinel beings, that completes all the essence of the Mahayana vows.
Mahayana vows, complete, inherited within them.
When you not doing any negative activity and perform any beneficial activities
and then that will keep practicing.
See everything as in the three kaya status, three kaya status.
Everything is in three kaya status.
Kaya state and therefore then you are keeping everything as,
as exactly where it is, see that.
And what is Samaya, what is the teaching said?
What the great master known in the Yimat school,
very famous master, you know, I think his book is translated to his,
this Maripendha, very famous master and this,
he wrote a very famous book known as Three Vows.
Three Vows, which is, then his own religion also commented on that vow
and which is translated into English.
English.
At the end, he said all the Samayas, everything is explained everything.
And what he said, and how he summarized.
He said in brief, if you see all the three doors are three various status,
all the Samayas are completed within them.
If you see three doors are three various status.
Three doors, three you know, you know.
The body, speech and mind.
If you see these three doors are the three various status,
then every, hundreds and millions of,
hundreds and millions of Samayas are completed within them.
Three doors is of course our body, speech, mind.
But not just only our body, speech, mind.
The form, song, speech.
All those are three doors to you.
When you see that as three way,
whether, whether body, whether song or Buddha,
enlightened poem, enlightenment speech,
enlightenment space, if you see, then there's nothing wrong.
Nothing is right and wrong hold is the enlightened, enlightened status.
And similarly here,
simultaneously inherit the Samayas.
You have that realization, then complete.
The other one in the teaching said, what the great master again,
Adi said one time, said,
and I think one of his students, Dom Tamba, I think,
and he asked, Dom Tamba asked, asked to Adi, he said,
master, when will you not perform the negative activities,
when you got the realization of the true nature of emptiness?
He said, when we will stop the negative, or the negative activities.
Negative, what do you...
Yeah, I think that's it.
When we stop the negative activities,
we really got the realization of emptiness, emptiness.
And Adi just said,
when you got the realization of emptiness at that same time,
compassion is right there.
Compassion and emptiness realization comes as one baggage.
It's not just compassion comes in upper world,
or compassion comes before.
When we have the post-Boomi realization,
for example, every talk, Boomi level,
post-Boomi realization, that moment,
you have the great compassion as post-Boomi.
For those reasons, when you have the great realization
of the true nature of the mind,
that moment, the great compassion, is also shining, shimmering.
So compassion is not something that comes later,
or we don't have the compassion.
This is the nature, the nature of the mind,
clarity and the nature of the mind.
What can be is token. That's how the realization comes.
And then, of course, now, this is all I mentioned, token.
This time, what is our main practices?
As we do, tattoo practices, tattoo.
And then we are going in these texts, great, unique.
And this is quite big.
You see, I'm just showing this.
So maybe you're looking at something,
all those different life things, all those things.
So it's going to come slowly.
It's not coming.
But in the teaching, you see, really,
the first is so important, tattoo.
And not just of tattoo is important.
When we practice a toggle, we have to maintain a tattoo.
Within that tattoo, we're going to practice toggle.
And we don't have the tattoo realization
and practice toggle.
Then it becomes not good enough.
All this is become almost, we're kind of looking
to another grasp, another clean.
And it's not become refined.
So toggle practices must be best upon the tattoo.
And the tattoo practices must be accompanied
by all the time within toggle practices.
Otherwise, it is just another conception, this place.
It could come, that.
So therefore, every teaching said,
tattoo is so important.
Without the tattoo practices,
toggle won't make toggle.
Or toggle without the tattoo practices,
and the tattoo won't be leaping over.
Leaping over in one instance, it's said.
From the duality world, leap over to the enlightenment state,
or Buddhahort.
But without the tattoo practices, it won't leap over.
Leap over because we still hold back by the dualities.
So then it's not really become successful.
So therefore, tattoo is so important,
we continually practice it.
And then, I mean, it has many.
So it won't become easy.
I just follow with this teaching.
Gradually, we have quite a while to go.
And I just thought to tell you,
but we are really making good preparation,
good foundation for the toggle.
And we are heart of the Buddhasamadabhadas.
Buddhasamadabhadas.
And that is what the tattoo is.
Tattoo is.
So with great joy, with great devotion,
and great enthusiasm,
and then we continue the practices,
and then the light will come.
[Laughter]
Light is already here.
There is something welcome.
But also, excitement, light is welcome.
We have some questions we will discuss.